# Generative AI LLM Chatbot (WIP)
My first experiment with the <a href='https://github.com/VikramsDataScience/Multi_Modal_AI_Side_Projects/tree/dev/Job_Ad_QA_Model'>`Job_Ad_QA_Model`</a> was fairly basic, but proved successful in retrieving relevant job ads that are based on a user generated query that is parsed through the command line. However, this was only for document retrieval purposes, and could only return top 5 job ads (i.e. full job ads) based on user queries. This is opposed to AI generated natural language responses to queries. Even though the search capability was quite relevant to user queries, it's a little basic and not all that useful 😒 in a world that's rapidly moving towards Generative AI.

To extend on that initial foray into language models this project will aim to build on the foundations of that first experiment - by using a pretrained Text Generation LLM (I haven't settled on a pretrained LLM as yet, but it'll be trained on either millions or billions of parameters). I'll then perform some custom training of the model on the same job ads corpus from the first project. I'll then be <i>attempting</i> to create a more conversational and interactive chatbot that can generate natural language responses to user queries as they pertain to SEEK job ads 😄.

## On Text Generation Inference (TGI)
Text Generation Inference in the context of building a chatbot refers to the process of generating text responses based on input received from a user during a conversation. It involves utilizing Machine Learning models, such as Natural Language Processing (NLP) or Deep Learning models, to analyze the input text, understand its meaning, and generate an appropriate and coherent response.